our team SIGMAI is working on a Revolutionary Hybrid app named “LEARN SQUARE” that includes a number of technologies that aid in the access to education of specially-abled children in their learning environment.
 
6 Main Parts:
1. Blind
2. Deaf
3. Dumb
4. Cognitive Impairment
5. BDD(Blind+Deaf+Dumb)
6. Multiple Disability
 
Features enlisted are further explained in detail below…
 
BLIND:
	Kids with visual impairments struggle a lot to grasp things that are shown in a normal textbook thus several converters are provided by our app to make it into usable format.
 1.1. Text to audio conversion
We are aware that blind youngsters are unable to see or read text, but they are able to hear audio messages. As a result, our team decided to make use of their hearing abilities by transforming the text into audio format.
 1.2. Changing a picture into an audio file
 Our team devised a feature that converts book images (hardcopies) into text format, which may then be converted to audio.That is, audio clips are created from pictures or scanned images. Text from scanned documents and photographs is converted into editable text using OCR.
  1.3.  Printing in braille
The use of Braille printers comes into play in this situation. This text will be converted to Braille code using Braille Translation Software. After conversion, the matching Braille code is printed using a Digital Braille printer. Using varying combinations of raised dots, the Braille code allows us to read and write information.
 
1.D. DIFFICULTIES
	Blind kids suffer a lot to take pictures of textbook inorder to convert and use them by our app so, it requires external assistance.
 
DEAF:
     Due to their poor communication, deaf persons often confront a slew of issues, including less educational and employment opportunities. This is the most significant impediment to their education. Our team has devised various remedies because there is no viable technology for this problem.
2.1. CONVERTING SOUND TO TEXT:
       Our app features outstanding sound to text converters that can convert any audio clip into English text. Flutter's speech to text library, which comes pre-installed, makes this procedure possible. We're still working on it to increase its accuracy so that it can cope with the sounds.
 
2.2.  REAL TIME AUDIO CONVERSATION:
       This has now been fixed by converting the videos' audio into subtitles, making them more accessible to the deaf. To tackle this issue, we're developing a function that translates voice to text in real time, similar to how personal voice assistants in smartphones do it.
2.3. TEACHING OF SIGN LANGUAGE:
    While technology can help deaf students overcome some of their educational challenges, it cannot help them interact in real time with others who do not understand sign language. Instead of focusing just on children with impairments, we wanted to include a component that would allow normal children and adults to learn sign language in an engaging manner, allowing our community to better serve students with hearing loss.
 
2.D. DIFFICULTIES FACED AND THE POSSIBLE SOLUTIONS:-
    When converting audio to text, only the English language is available. When converting real-time audio to text, if there is noise in the background, the sound may not be recognised correctly, and the relevant text will not be displayed. On the other side, learning sign language for deaf children by yourself could be difficult. We are continually striving to resolve these problems.  
 
DUMB:
  Similarly to how a typical child learns to read and write in Alphabets, children with voice impairments must be taught sign language. As a result, we planned to use a collaborative and participatory approach to teach Sign Language to children with disabilities. They can overcome the communication barrier to some extent by learning.
 
 
4. Cognitive Impairment :
       Cognitive disability, often known as intellectual disability, is a condition in which a child's intelligence and adaptability are much lower than the national average. Due to these limitations, a kid will develop and learn at a slower rate than a typical child.
     Our team has designed a simple three-stage interactive game through which CI kids can strengthen their mental capacities, despite the fact that it is a significant effort to aid them in studying.
 
Where activities like
          4.1. Match the shape/color(matching apt colors and shapes puzzle)
          4.2. Form the word (forming words from letters dropped in the screen)
          4.3. Pop the balloon (Fun activity of popping balloons once activity completes)
 
Children can begin learning by selecting one of the three phases indicated below based on their ability to answer questions generated by the activities described above…
                     1.     Kiddo
                      2.    Prodigy
     3.    The Youngster
 
This section of our app is distinct from the others and requires special attention. We're working on it to help children with cognitive disability think more clearly.
 
4.D. DIFFICULTIES FACED AND THE POSSIBLE SOLUTION:-
     Children with cognitive disability require a lot of attention from their parents in order to do daily duties or learn new things.Making them sit in front of a mobile screen may be tiring at first, once it gets into their habit our app can make them obsessed with learning. 
 
5. BDD:(Blind+Deaf+Dumb)
   Thoughts from many viewpoints taught us that managing vibrations can resolve the barrier in order to deliver instructional materials to BDD children. When vibration is used for communication, it necessitates the use of a global language that is currently in use and simple enough to be taught to children with BDD disabilities.
 
MORSE CODE: .-.. . .- .-. -. (Learn):
   Morse code uses DOTS and DASHES to express information utilising sound, light, and quick motions. We chose this code for transmitting words/sentences via short and long vibrations since it may be portrayed through vibrant shapes.
 
5.U. Usage:
	Our app has a text section where it is necessary to copy paste text from either web resources or pic to text converter tool(given in our app) of a resource. Then in the backend the text is converted into morse code and later it gets ready to play as vibrations.
Once conversion gets completed , a long vibration goes on which indicates that the text is ready to play in vibration mode.
 
5.D. Hurdles Faced :
1.Teaching kids morse code through an app will be difficult, thus an aid will be needed to get them comfortable with Morse codes.
2.Long term use of phone vibrations might cause mobile phones to overheat. We planned to give chill breaks at various intervals to deal with this problem.
 
6. Multiple Disability

6.1. BLIND AND DEAF:
      	Our team planned to adopt the solution that was provided for BDD here as well to help kids with this inability.Usage of Vibration to deliver study materials with the use of MORSE CODE will support BLIND and DEAF kids to learn.

6.2. DEAF AND DUMB
DEAF&MUTE refers to children and adults who have difficulty hearing and listening. According to the poll, the majority of deaf children are compelled to be mute (not dumb). So, in this section of our solution, we've tried to assist them in overcoming their barriers to schooling and living a regular life.

6.2.1. Audio to Text conversion.
This feature in our software can detect audio files in any digital format and convert them to text/subtitles for users.

6.2.2. Live time Conversation to Text:
With this option, the user can have a live chat with anyone who isn't familiar with sign language. i.e. the person's voice or any other sound source is used as the input, which is transformed to text format and displayed on the screen in real time.

6.2.3. Interpreting & teaching of sign language:
We've implemented a sign language teaching session so that they can learn and communicate in the future.Furthermore, in order to understand the sign language communicated by our challenged users, normal people can use this option to translate the sign language.

6.3. BLIND AND DUMB: 
Children with this impairment can only communicate through sound.Thus, to have a refined feature for this mixed inability, our team rendered specialised characteristics from blind and dumb features established in previous parts.
	We planned to make use of the features given for Blind Kids in above statements along with teaching sign language to them inorder have swift communication skills.

6.3.1. Text to Speech conversion

6.3.2. Image to speech recognition

6.3.3. Digital braille printer

6.3.4. Teaching Sign Language
 
Technologies Used:
	Flutter is being used to build our application .Since this app was designed to help the physically challenged children the app has many accesses with the physical mode settings i.e like access to vibration ,access to camera settings ,audio ,microphone and internet connectivity.
At the initial stage of using the users are provided to choose the category of their need with the option of changing it later if they wish and users can change the phone setting for accessing our app by just triple pressing the power button.
Our application is mainly focused on live time use and give the users a satisfactory purpose of using it.Apart from the helping in providing education we have also tried to make them self access the normal education resource through our app which they were not able to use.We have used ,many open source technical aspects (like JARVIS,TTS,OCR) to improve the performance of our application.
