Our team SIGMAI is currently working on a Hybrid mobile application named “LEARN SQUARE” that can provide support for children with different disabilities in order to access educational resources existing in today's world(which can be accessed by a normal kid).
Impairments taken into consideration,
1. Blind
2. Deaf
3. Dumb
4. Cognitive Impairment
5. BDD(Blind+Deaf+Dumb)
6. Multiple Disability
 
We are working with full efforts on our app which will provide effective tools that can convert educational resources pertaining now into accessible forms for specially abled kids! 
Each disability is taken into consideration and given features/tools to turn available resources into forms that can be utilized by specially abled kids.
 
On moving further ,you can explore the features provided by our app . 
"Beneath the rust and grime which dulls the shine of our weathered hearts, joy patiently waits to be rediscovered"
Gather hope and start exploring our features…
 
 
1. Blind:
 
“The best and most beautiful things in the world cannot be seen or even touched,they must be felt with  the heart”.Though visually challenged persons cannot see the world, they can sense what is going on around them.
 
 
Visually impaired people confront obstacles in everyday life, such as lack of adequate communication, emotional support, and limited access to activities and reading materials. Furthermore, learning becomes a challenging effort due to the lack of readily available equipment for the specially abled, and the teaching-learning process becomes inefficient.Because they are blind, the only way to teach them is by hand signals and hearing.We've come up with some new features to put things into action.
Features provided:
 
   1.1. Text to audio conversion
   1.2. Changing a picture into an audio file
   1.3. Printing in braille
 
1.1. TEXT TO AUDIO:-
           We are aware that blind children cannot see or read the text, but they can hear audio messages. So our team decided to take use of their ability to hear by converting the text contents into audio format. This concept is implemented by the use of TTS technology (Text-To-Speech). By doing so, visual texts which were once not accessible gets shaped to be understood. 
 
1.2. PICTURE TO AUDIO:
      	The issue of text reading has been resolved.
“Nothing is pleasanter than exploring a library”, exploring the knowledge repository situated in a premises might become the best activity of your day. But when it comes to blind kids/students , most libraries fail to satisfy their needs since only a small number of braille books are made available and on the other hand students can't read texts if it is not made as braille. This hinders the resource sharing process with blind students. Thus our team came up with a feature which can convert book images(hardcopies) into text format and later into audio form.
     That is, the photographs or scanned images are turned into audio clips. OCR (Optical Character Recognition) is the technique we use to transform images into text. OCR converts text from scanned documents and photos into editable text.This text is converted to audio as explained above. By doing so we can make inaccessible hardcopies accessible to Blind kids , enriching their knowledge.
 
1.3. USE OF BRAILLE PRINTERS:-
    We all know that blind children can only understand things through two senses: touch and hearing. This is where the use of Braille printers comes into play. The user must copy paste the text from their desired source into our app. Using Braille Translation Software, this text will be transformed to Braille code. After conversion, a Digital Braille printer is used to print the corresponding Braille code.The Braille code allows us to read and write information by using different combinations of raised dots. Alphabets, words, numerals, and punctuations are represented by these dots in various combinations. It makes things easier to understand for the blind students.
 
USAGE:
    Our app has two unique characteristics that help to reduce the difficulties of teaching blind children. The first feature for blind users is that our programme includes a text part in which the user must explore the contents of the desired source and paste them into the text area. This text part uses TTS to transform the text to audio, which is then played through mobile speakers.
Another feature of the programme is that it includes an image section where photographs are transformed to audio using OCR technology. There are two features under the image section. The user can choose the feature that is most convenient for them. In the first, users must choose images from their gallery whatever they want to convert. The second employs a camera, and the user must scan photos from the textbook. These photos are used by the app's image section, which generates related sounds.
Last feature talks about the use of Braille scripts where copy paste of text does the job with ease.
 
 
DIFFICULTIES FACED AND THE POSSIBLE SOLUTIONS:
 
 
-	It necessitates the use of an assistant to aid them in scanning the photographs and selecting the images or text that they wish to convert. Once it gets done then our app takes hold of the rest.
-	When compared to a normal person, the blind take longer to read using braille coding. On the other hand, a Braille printer generates noise and is costly too. So, we planned to deploy our app's text to a braille converter for the sake of organizations/individuals(like libraries) who can afford a digital braille printer.
 
 
2. DEAF:
 
     Due to their poor communication, deaf persons often confront a slew of issues, including less educational and employment opportunities. This is the most significant impediment to their education. Our team has devised various remedies because there is no viable technology for this problem.
 
The solution includes:
   2.1. Converting sound to text
   2.2. Real time audio conversation
   2.3. Teaching of sign language
 
2.1. CONVERTING SOUND TO TEXT:
Deaf children, as is generally known, cannot hear and so cannot respond effectively, but they can see well. Thus, our team has made the decision to use their outstanding vision to combat hearing loss. Our app gives exceptional sound to text converters which can convert any audio clips into english texts. This process is made possible by means of Flutter's speech_to_text library available as inbuilt. Further we are working on it to improve its accuracy level to cope up with the audio attached.
 
2.2. REAL TIME AUDIO CONVERSATION:
The issue with the audio lessons being converted to text has been rectified. The issue of video lessons and real-time dialogue now arises. This has now been resolved by translating the audio in the videos into subtitles, making it more accessible to the deaf. But when it comes to real-time conversation between a teacher who doesn't know sign language and a self motivated deaf kid , a communication barrier occurs. To resolve this conflict we are working over a feature which converts voice to text on a real-time basis like it is done on personal voice assistants in smartphones.
 
2.3. TEACHING OF SIGN LANGUAGE:
While technology can assist deaf children in overcoming some of their educational problems, it cannot help them communicate in real time with other people who can't reply back in sign language. Thus instead of only concentrating on kids with disabilities, we planned to have a feature which can teach normal kids/adults sign language in an interactive manner that can ultimately help our community to support Students with hearing impairment.
 
USAGE:
This programme requires users to upload audio or video lessons, which are then converted to text and displayed. A microphone is also required when users want to listen to real-time discussions and convert them to text.
 
DIFFICULTIES FACED AND THE POSSIBLE SOLUTIONS:-
 
   Only the English language is supported when converting audio to text.If there is noise in the background when converting real-time audio to text, the sound may not be identified correctly, and the needed text will not be displayed. Learning sign language for deaf children by self, on the other hand, might be challenging. We are constantly working on these issues to get it resolved.
 
3. DUMB:
    When a person is generally dumb, he or she finds it difficult to interact with others. They will be unable to convey their opinions and thoughts. When it comes to education, the dumb children are unable to ask questions and have their doubts answered. So, one way to solve the problem is to teach sign language to those kids.
    As a normal kid learns to read and write in Alphabets, the same way kids with vocal impairment needs to be taught sign language.Thus we planned to deploy teaching of Sign Language to kids with impairment using a collaborative and interactive way. By learning so they can overcome the communication barrier to some extent.
 
USAGE:
Teaching sign language allows individuals to blend in with their surroundings and improves teacher-student engagement.
 
DIFFICULTIES FACED AND THE POSSIBLE SOLUTION:-
    Learning sign language for dumb children through self might be challenging. Using interactive and treatful ways can make it better to learn. Our app concentrates on providing interactive and attractive user interfaces which would make children to self learn things.
 
4. Cognitive Impairment :
   Cognitive disability, often known as intellectual disability, is a condition in which a child's intelligence and adaptability are much lower than the average for chronological children. Because of these constraints, a kid will learn and develop at a slower rate than a typical child. This does actually create an immoral race among their age group of children. Solving or aiding children with CI necessitates the creation of a separate part that stimulates their learning potential based on their mental talents.
 
    Though it is a difficult effort to assist them study, our team has devised a simple three-stage interactive activity through which CI children can strengthen their mental capacities.
 
Where activities like
          -> Match the shape/color
          -> Form the word
          -> Pop the balloon
 
Brief info on Activities enlisted,
 
Matching the shape/color activity engages children with calming colors and shapes while also interacting with them to encourage them to choose appropriate shapes/colors, therefore enhancing their brain function.
 
Make the Word is a verbal activity that encourages children to form meaningful basic words from letters placed in front of them (onscreen). Once the word is formed, our software returns the pronunciation, assisting children in becoming familiar with their newly formed words. This strengthens their ability to communicate verbally.
 
Finally, "Pop the Balloon" is introduced, in which children are instructed to pop the balloons displayed on the screen if the previous two games have been successfully performed. This function acts as a small danger to their brain, encouraging them to continue learning!
 
    Children can begin learning by picking one of the three phases outlined below, based on their ability to answer questions, which are built using the above enlisted activities...
 
Stages:
Kiddo
Prodigy
The Youngster
 
Each stage enlisted above deals with kids having low levels of brain development to below normal level (starting from Kiddo till The Youngster). This part of our app is completely different from the rest which needs special care. We are working on it to improve the mental thinking of kids suffering from cognitive impairment.
 
DIFFICULTIES FACED AND THE POSSIBLE SOLUTION:-
Kids suffering from cognitive impairment need lots of care from the parental side either to do day to day tasks or to learn new stuff. Making them sit in front of a mobile screen may be tiring at first, once it gets into their habit our app can make them obsessed with learning. 
 
 
5. BDD:(Blind+Deaf+Dumb)
“Keep your face to the sun and you will never see the shadows” 
	Is an optimistic quote said by Helen Keller who was both blind, deaf and was also dumb in her childhood. Driving the education of kids with disabilities like Helen Keller would be a great deal unless we find Teachers like Anne Sullivan for each one. 
	Providing apt educational resources to kids with such disabilities requires Physical actions like hand gestures, real-life entities where a personal assistance is a core necessity.But having a personal assistance throughout the day will surely costs more whereas a smartphone can provide multiple features when it is enhanced for their necessities.Since only a few features like vibration and heat are the major physical factors available on a smartphone, thoughts from various angles showed us that controlling vibrations can resolve the barrier inorder to convey educational stuffs to BDD kids. When vibration is opted for communication , it ultimately requires a global language which must be already in use and needs to be simple inorder to teach it to kids with BDD disability. So we called out for SOS! Striking for help… by which we found that linking MORSE CODE and Vibration can be a minimalistic solution to the barrier. 
 
MORSE CODE: .-.. . .- .-. -. (Learn)
	Morse code conveys infos just by using DOTS and DASHES through means of sound/light/rapid motions. Since it can be represented through vivid forms, we opted for this code for conveying words/sentences by means of short and long vibrations.
	A beep second vibration denotes a dot and 2 beep second vibration denotes dash. By converting sentence/text into dots and dashes using conversion programs later using those dot/dash codes to produce apt vibrations. This will have a great effect on our society to promote self learning of kids with BDD disabilities.
 
Usage:
	Our app has a text section where it is necessary to copy paste text from either web resources or pic to text converter tool(given in our app) of a resource. Then in the backend the text is converted into morse code and later it gets ready to play as vibrations.
	Once conversion gets completed , a long vibration goes on which indicates that the text is ready to play in vibration mode. The control button gets displayed in the bottom right corner of the display making it easy to control while in play by BDD kids. It can either play or pause the playing vibration. If configuration correction is required , they can gather help from their care-takers who can adjust the speed and strength of vibration processes.
	When everything is set properly , materials which were once inaccessible gets accessed by BDD kids
 
 
Hurdles Faced (& Solutions found) :
Teaching kids morse code will be a tough task through an app so it requires help from an assistant to get them comfortable with Morse codes.
Prolonged use of phone vibrations may cause heating issues to mobile phones. To cope with this issue we prepared to give chill breaks at several time intervals.
Coping up with the vibration speed becomes troublesome for beginners, thus we came up with the feature to customize character speed, vibration strength and frequency of the morse vibrations.
 
 
6. Multiple Disability:
6.1. Blind Dumb
6.2. Blind Deaf
6.3. Deaf Dumb
 
6.1. BLIND DUMB: (only sense of hearing)
                   Blind Dumbness is the mixed inability of a kid who lacks both vision and voice. Kids with this disability can only be communicated by means of sound.
Thus our team rendered specific features from blind and dumb features predefined in before sections to have a refined feature for this mixed inability.
 
Features available:
 Text to speech conversion
  Image to audio 
  Braille printer (text to Braille script)
 
6.1.1. Text to speech conversion:
         We planned to inherit the same feature which was used before in our app for blind part. By inheriting it we can make sure that this feature works fine.
 
 6.1.2. Image to speech conversation:
                As described before , this tool converts hardcopy text into softcopy text format using OCR conversion and later into speech i.e., by the usage of TTS tech. Again inheritance from blind part.
 
6.1.3. Braille printer:
            Once again we apply inheritance inorder to render braille text from normal text format. After getting braille converted text people can use either digital braille printer if they are wealthy enough or a big organization can take up charge.
 
By these mean we are working over to reduce the hindrance to access education for a Blind Dumb Kid.
 
 
6.2. BLIND AND DEAF:(only sense of touch)
 
      	“Only mind has sight and hearing; all things else are deaf and blind”
 
      	Deaf-blindness is a combination of sight and hearing loss that affects a person's ability to communicate, access information and get around. It's also sometimes called "dual sensory loss" or "multi-sensory impairment". A deafblind person won't usually be totally deaf and totally blind, but both senses will be reduced enough to cause significant difficulties in everyday life. These problems can occur even if hearing loss and vision loss are mild, as the senses work together and one would usually help compensate for the loss of the other.
 
      	Because deaf-blindness significantly impacts a child or youth's ability to access information, communicate, and interact with other people, it has profound implications for educational services. The limited sensory channels available for learning necessitate developing a highly-individualized program for each child that addresses their interests and unique ways of learning. Sensory deficits can easily mislead even experienced educators into underestimating (or occasionally overestimating) intelligence and constructing inappropriate programs.
        	Both the beginning and end of a child's education require special attention. It's important for children with deaf-blindness to be identified early in life when the brain is most sensitive to learning and begin receiving appropriate intervention as infants and toddlers. Once a child reaches age 14, it's time to begin careful planning and preparation for successful transition to employment, post-secondary education, and life in the community when they leave school. 
	To support kids with this inability , our team planned to implement the solution which was proposed for BDD (detailed above) here too.
	Usage of Vibration to deliver study materials with the use of MORSE CODE will support BLIND and DEAF kids to learn.
Hurdles Faced (Solution found):
	Since a blind kid can't capture pics of books on their own , it is mandatory for an assistant to help them to take pictures . Once pictures are taken everything is set and conversion starts. BDD features apply here…
  
6.3. DEAF DUMB:(only sense of touch)
    The kids/adults with the hearing and listening challenges come under this DEAF&MUTE category. As the survey says majority of the children who are born deaf are forced to be mute(not dumb).So in this division of our solution ,we have tried to help them overcome their barrier towards the education as well as to feel a normal life.
Challenges faced by the DEAF & DUMB(dumb):
Kids with this inability finds it hard to grasp what is taught by a normal Faculty in their class if dominated by normal Kids.
They cant hear Audio clips/Informative audios circulated around internets.
Since they cant speak inorder to express their doubts, a major part remains unclear.
Solutions to overcome the challenges:

6.3.1. Audio to Text conversion.
6.3.2. Real-time Conversation to Text.
6.3.3. Interpreting & teaching of sign language.

Brief view on solutions:

6.3.1. Audio to Text conversion:
This option which is provided in our app is capable of sensing the audios present in any digital format and converting them to text/subtitles for the users.
 
6.3.2. Live time Conversation to Text:
Under this option the user is capable of making a live conversation with any one who has no idea on sign language. i.e the voice of the person or any sound source is taken as the input and it is converted to the text format and displayed on the screen at the real time itself.

6.3.3. Interpreting & teaching of sign language:
As we have seen above many normal people who are very close to our challenged users are not able to communicate through sign language. So as a solution to this we have introduced the sign language teaching session for them to learn and communicate in future.
	In addition to this ,in order to understand the sign language spoken by our challenged users, normal people can also interpret the sign language under this option. 
 
TECHNOLOGIES USED
The main purpose of this app is to help the disabled the disabled child in education aspects.This app was made with many technical aspects.										
Flutter was used to build our application as our main focus was to  help users to access our app in both android and ios. Since this app was designed to help the physically challenged children the app has many accesses with the physical mode settings i.e like access to vibration ,access to camera settings ,audio ,microphone and internet connectivity.
At the initial stage of using the users are provided to choose the category of their need with the option of changing it later if they wish and users can change the phone setting for accessing our app by just triple pressing the power button.
Our application is mainly focused on live time use and give the users a satisfactory purpose of using it.Apart from the helping in providing education we have also tried to make them self access the normal education resource through our app which they were not able to use.We have used ,many open source technical aspects (like JARVIS,TTS,OCR) to improve the performance of our application. 
